generally the consensus I've drawn is
that North America is stronger in
standard play and that Europe has a very
good understanding and a lot better
understanding of what the niche meta is
or like the counterpick meta are just
this other style of play what's the
second day of rift rivals I'm joined
right now by doc from echo fox coverage
presented by Omni slash talked a little
bit about his run so far at rift rivals
so how are things going with echo Fox
because it seems like you guys are
trying out a different stuff and you're
kind of it feels like the echo fox
experience here at ref travels is one
more of experimentation and trying out
different people yeah pretty much I mean
even our coaches said it we like are
pretty much just treating this like
we're screaming on stage essentially so
just because we don't have much practice
coming into the the tournament and the
tournament doesn't mean too much to us
or it doesn't mean too much in like the
grand scheme of things I guess in terms
of like we will obviously want to go to
Worlds and all that jazz so we do take
it as an opportunity to practice and as
an opportunity to learn a lot so you
know we're playing versus a really
formidable team that does a lot of
funnel stuff we're not gonna ban funnel
try to win because they're really good
at it we're gonna play against it and
see if we can beat it see what like what
we can learn from it so I think we have
that kind of mentality and it's
different from a lot of other teams and
not a lot of other teams are willing to
just kind of I guess sack the chance to
just have like you know na is better
than EU because you know we know deep
down if we played like when supers out
and these guys don't please don't play
super we're gonna smash them in standard
game so personally as echo fox we don't
really care too much about losing to
funnel because we are just really trying
to learn as much as we can
how much have you learned from the
European teams because I understand that
it's not just on the on stage experience
but there's also a lot of screaming
going on behind the scenes against the
EU teams well it's just they have a
completely different outlook on the game
so obviously there's so much to learn
even at a base level of just like just
watching them compete against even other
teams not even screaming them so we
learned just a base amount just from
having them around and just seeing them
play the game so I think you just has a
very
better a lot better grasp of like when
the niche picks in the meta are actually
supposed to be used so you see like when
they actually select these
heimerdinger's or you know their karma
ad carry's or you know they play the
funnel strat it always blows out the
game and it's always in a really
favorable position where it's just like
wow there's really nothing they could do
and I think that's where na is really
missing where they just kind of pick the
champs whenever they want and we're just
like yeah this can't lose it's too
broken you know you mean because they
played it in like so lucky twice but you
actually like very well are very deeply
understands the champions and it feels a
lot more punishing when they play it and
when they actually pick it but I do
still think a lot of their I guess
fanatic in particular I do think that
running no marksman is unfavorable and
if riot keeps buffing marksman's like
they do i do think not having that
option in your arsenal or in your draft
is going to be very hurtful but i don't
think anybody is like well prepared or
has a deep enough pool in the meta right
now to actually punish people like that
but I do think it will develop like that
yeah I mean it's it's interesting to
hear this because I did a pretty long
interview with wreckless yesterday and
he he was really much on the train of
like the opposite right which is as as
time goes on if the meta doesn't shift
back in favor of ADCs or if riot doesn't
make attempts to really buff EDC's adc's
will just go away marksmen will just go
away because it is just way more optimal
to play you know like a mage or a tank
or one of you know the ten different
interesting options down there but you
very much disagree you're actually the
opposite where you think that those
things will get phased out in favor of
marksmen over time yeah well it will
obviously depend on like what the patch
actually says so obviously if they don't
buff marksmen and they continue to keep
buffing and I guess fluctuating the
strength of mages then there's a good
chance that mage ad carry her mage carry
becomes just a normal thing and marksmen
just don't get played unless in like a
very neat scenario but I do still think
that ad carries that normally dominated
in the laning phase like Lucian before
or in some situations ad carries with
counterfeit support would still win
versus mages I still think those are
extremely viable options like I don't
think Ellucian from purple side is like
a very
way to play the game either if you have
a very strong marksman who is you know
known for winning lanes so for example
like on echo fox we've run it with
Johnny Johnny's very good at punishing
to the laning phase and then also I
would see like I could see people like
double is playing it you know you still
CC LTL playing things like they still
play Caixa they still played Lucian they
still plays I recon dub left has always
been a very like notorious for being
very punishing in the laning phase and
he still does abuse and punish people in
the laning phase as marksmen versus
these mages and I you do also see him
have to show I guess show the depth of
this pool like he did play bottom mirror
or something like that he played he
plays a bunch of mages in scrims too so
I'm sure he understands the worth of
having marksman in his pool as well and
I'm sure I'm pretty sure that the I
reckless is just wrong with I'm glad you
brought up the Team Liquid thing because
it's really interesting so we see you
guys experimenting with different
players and also trying to just learn
you know as you said not banning out
funnel strats against good final teams
to try to learn from that 100t obviously
doing their own thing to playing some
folks from their academy team Team
Liquid is just playing standard they're
like not playing funnel they are not
like mixing things up and trying
different they're just like we're just
gonna play standard League of Legends
like we've been doing for the past like
seven years and it seems to be leading
them to success so what do you think of
the fact that like one is that a bad
thing for Team Liquid should they be
using this as an experience too
is it is it weird that like Europe who
has I we haven't seen them face g2 yet
but is it weird that Europe who has
these weird strats falling to team like
wooden standard it's just an interesting
situation for me so I was curious about
your take I mean I don't think it's
necessarily bad coming into a tournament
like I'm sure TL doesn't feel like the
super stuff is that strong at all like I
kind of feel like they just seemed it
just seems like they just think that
playing Marshman bottom is the best way
to win the game so I think them coming
into the tournament and playing like
that it's just kind of expected because
it wasn't like obviously when this patch
came everyone was thinking like what is
doublelift gonna do not like I can't
wait to see double is flat you know
there's just like how is how is double
gonna find a way to play marksmen and
yeah the truth is II just
good head marksman so he can just play
it into the mages and even if he's in an
unfavorable matchup he just understands
the lane on a way deeper level than
obviously a marksman player playing a
mage would so even if he's in an
unfavorable scenario like it's still
winnable or if he plays well that kind
of stuff so I do think that yeah Lane
winning ATS are still fine i jus still
think that TL coming into the tournament
playing standard is fine because it I
don't think playing super is necessary
yeah
I've talked to a lot of European players
yesterday and the general sense from
them was and they would say it just
casually right they'd be like yeah you
know it's kind of unfortunately we're
over here cuz like North America's not
very good and we have to go back and
like hey just blast them right and a
couple of the guys even told me you know
like oh yeah like Team Liquid is pretty
good and maybe TSM but like other
everything else is like not good what is
your take from playing the European
players and the European teams on sort
of the the strengths of Europe versus
the strengths of North America overall I
would say generally the consensus I've
drawn is that North America is stronger
in standard play and that Europe has a
very good understanding and a lot better
understanding of what the niche meta is
or like the counterpick meta are just
this other style of play regarding mage
bottoms and just flex pay stuff like
that
looks like the European tops also have
mastered aatrox faster so that is
another interesting thing and just in
general I think the both both regions
are just pretty similar in strength like
any one of these games aside from I
think TL would just beat anyone maybe
besides g2 but it will just revolve
around how they draft around funnel
obviously I think funnel is still at the
point where nobody understands it
perfectly so that every game is really
winnable from both sides if there's a
funnel involved so I think aside from g2
any funnel game is a coin flip but other
than that I think any standard game TL
is gonna crush for sure in any standard
game I think echo fox 100 these will
still do really well maybe not a hundred
these because they're using their
academy players but I think in standard
game na is favored for sure and I felt
like we were stronger especially late
ever since probably like playoffs when
we showed in the third fourth place
match in Miami and stuff I thought
from watching the games after that our
region was stronger in standard form one
of the reasons I bring that up is
because I have felt kind of worried
about North America lately because Team
Liquid they're just chugging along doing
their own thing although they did not
look good at MSI which doesn't give me a
great deal of faith in and their their
situation but obviously looking ok at
rivals then you've got like TSM which
seems to continue to be inconsistent and
weird 100t just blew up their roster you
guys seem to be like trying out
different things and arrow keeps having
you guys funnel you keep funneling those
those funnels into losses for the wins
for the other team you know like I'm
just watching at LCS and I'm like I
don't know what's happening and even
Team Liquid who supposed to be is like
going off and losing the golden
Guardians granted Peter was on vlad but
like it's just it's just a weird time
for me to watch na LCS cuz i'm like i
don't is any of this good like our 80 of
these team they dose is all running
around and fighting each other and weird
way so but but you you think I shouldn't
be concerned yeah I don't think you guys
should be necessarily concerned although
it does look pretty XD right now in the
region for sure we are really it is just
the product of us being in a region that
is obviously wait a lot more relaxed in
terms of like I guess testing stuff out
or just happening like a more
open-minded idea of just like how to
play the game like I'm sure like in the
past couple years like na was all about
just like focusing on what is lck
playing you and I mean just like copy
getting scrim seeing what you can play
around it and it would just focus on
that but now especially because of like
the huge patch that came before the
season started it just feels like
everyone for the first time every region
is just kind of taking their own take on
the game because they saw like when lck
started the first game of lck was like
master yi tarde versus Karthus nunu and
everybody's really like wow it's gonna
be a fiesta patch huh and then yeah I
think it's yeah just really cool so
you're enjoying it yeah I think it's
really good I don't think anybody should
be concerned
everyone is just learning the game trust
me they're just learning the game
because it's been
it's too scary and I've been like are
these guys learning anything because I
feel like sometimes they're not is there
anything that you would say to any of
the fans out there oh
stick with us echo fox is definitely
riff Ravel has not been our best showing
for sure but you know we there's some
good spots in the gameplay for sure
there's a lot of just look look for the
light in the Fiesta is all say to the
fans we're gonna keep keep trying to
perform well and keep improving towards
our goal which is world and playoffs so
hopefully our poor performance or kind
of under performing performance is not
too hard for you guys to take okay thank
you so much start off for the interview
for everyone else you can check out the
rest of my coverage of all things
eSports right here on my youtube channel
thanks so much Tom nice watch for their
support of my rift rivals coverage I
also want to say by the way that I have
a twitch channel I stream on that if you
guys go follow that that'd be super cool
and by the way as I filmless I'm less
than 500 subs away from 150,000 subs on
my youtube channel so if you sub that
can super help me out too because it's
like it's like pretty cool milestone so
if you could help me out
that would be cool thanks so much